---
title: "Aerobatics Over Lake Wanaka"
tags: "ensemble"
sectionSortOrder: 2
shortDesc: "Starting gently and developing into an exhilarating wild ride in a stunt plane over New Zealand's beautiful Lake Wanaka"
forces: "for 6 pianos"
length: "8 mins"
workNumber: "P0001"
compositionYear: "1998"
hire: yes
buy: ""
recording: ""
audioIndex: 1
projectColour: 347AB5

pdf: "Aerobatics Over Lake Wanaka"
audio: "P0001"
bannerImage: "./image/banner.jpg"
titleImage: "./image/tile.jpg"
---

<div class="pdMainContent">
    <p>
    On my first trip to New Zealand's South Island, I was driving along the shore of Lake Wanaka, a stunning majestic lake cradled beneath a sky chalked airily with brushes of cirrus clouds. </p>
    <p>While trying hard to focus on not crashing the car from overdosing on the scenery, a roadside sign caught my eye: "Aerobatics here! 30 mins trip". Did I pull over?.. sadly no - as I had an appointment in the next town that I was already late for..</p>
    
    <p>But I gleefully imagined many times in my mind what that aerobatics trip would have been like - and this piece is its imagined story. A peaceful, scene-setting opening with a chorale-like tune gives way to a stunt plane starting its engine, then a sense of building anticipation leading to the exhilaration of experiencing high-speed rolls, dives, loops and spins, all high above the tranquil setting of the lake. </p>

    <p>
        A levelling-out follows, with a return to the contemplative nature of the opening, and a close-up examination of some of the intricate reflection patterns glittering on the water below. Finally another build and climb to another stint of flying thrills, leading to a celebratory coda in which the chorale tune returns.
    </p>
    <p>
    Aside from the story above, this piece owes a debt for its inspiration to Piano Circus itself, since it was on hearing the group in 1991 that I realised the possibilities of the ensemble, and felt instantly compelled to offer material for it!</p>

</div>

<div class="pdSidebar">
    <p>For 6 pianos</p>
    <hr />
    <p>Dur. 8'30"</p>
</div>
